docs/clojure/function-creation.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Basics of Function
permalink: /docs/clojure/function-creation/
level: easy
author: yokolet
---

Clojure is a functional programming language.
Creating and using functions, also, creating functions to use functions are what Clojure programers do.
Clojure has a couple of ways to create a function.
Among them, function definition by `defn` would be the most popular one.

The syntax is:

  ```
  (defn name doc-string? attr-map? [params*] body)
  ```

Just above may be unclear how to write.
It is a good idea to look at how other functions do.
For example, let's look at `+` function,
which we can see at
[https://github.com/clojure/clojure/blob/master/src/clj/clojure/core.clj#L943](https://github.com/clojure/clojure/blob/master/src/clj/clojure/core.clj#L943)

{% highlight clojure %}
(defn +
  "Returns the sum of nums. (+) returns 0. Does not auto-promote
  longs, will throw on overflow. See also: +'"
  {:inline (nary-inline 'add 'unchecked_add)
   :inline-arities >1?
   :added "1.2"}
  ([] 0)
  ([x] (cast Number x))
  ([x y] (. clojure.lang.Numbers (add x y)))
  ([x y & more]
    (reduce1 + (+ x y) more)))
{% endhighlight %}

Compare `defn` syntax and the actual function code.

  - `name` is `+`
  - `doc-string?` is "Returns the sum of nums...(snip)...See also: +'"
  - `attr-map?` is `{:inline (nary-inline...(snip)...:added "1.2"}`
  - `[params*]`s are `[]`, `[x]`, `[x y]`, and `[x y & more]`
  - `body`s follow each param. `0`,` (cast Number x)` and other


We use `+` function like:
{% highlight clojure %}
user=> (+)            ; params []
0
user=> (+ 3)          ; parans [x]
3
user=> (+ 3 4)        ; params [x y]
7
user=> (+ 3 4 5 6 7)  ; params [x y & more]
25
{% endhighlight %}


Also, see the function's document using `doc` function how `doc-string?`
and other compoments will show up.

- Advice to coaches

    Please make sure *console* is opened if attendees are using LightTable.
    On other repl, in some case, clojure.repl is not loaded.
    For such case, don't forget `(use '[clojure.repl])`.
    The `doc` function is available after that.



{% highlight clojure %}
user=> (doc +)
-------------------------
clojure.core/+
([] [x] [x y] [x y & more])
  Returns the sum of nums. (+) returns 0. Does not auto-promote
  longs, will throw on overflow. See also: +'
nil
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

Let's get back to the `defn` syntax, `(defn name doc-string? attr-map? [params*] body)`.

  - We need `name`.
  - `doc-string?` and `attr-map?` are optional.
  - `[params*]` can take multiple forms, [], [x], [x y], [x y & more], [x & more], or [& more].
      We need at least one of them.
      In other languages, there's an idea of *operator overload*,
      and in some cases, multiple same name methods of different number of argurments exist
      (the number of arguments is called *arity*).
      Clojure can do in a single definition.
<br/><br/>

So far, we learned how to create the function. It's time to try your own function. Here's an example:

{% gist 9161447 %}

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (do-something)
"nothing"
user> (do-something 1)
"easy!"
user> (do-something 1 1)
"hm, ok, will do"
user> (do-something 1 1 1)
"oh, no, so many!"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

The first example doesn't use given arguments. Next example uses arguments.

This `add-up` function sums up given initial value and all elements in
the given collection (vector or list).

Unless given collection is empty, the function recursively calls itself.

When, the given collection gets empty, it returns the summed up value.

To visualize what's going on during the recursive call,
`println` is added in `let` binding.
(see  [`let` binding]({{ site.baseurl}}/docs/clojure/let/),
[`cond`]({{ site.baseurl}}/docs/clojure/cond/) )

{% gist 9162464 %}

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (add-up 1 '(1 2))
val: 1, coll: (1 2)
val: 2, coll: (2)
val: 4, coll: clojure.lang.PersistentList$EmptyList@1
4
user> (add-up 3 [1 2 3])
val: 3, coll: [1 2 3]
val: 4, coll: (2 3)
val: 6, coll: (3)
val: 9, coll: clojure.lang.PersistentList$EmptyList@1
9
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

Above is for a practice to create function.
However, Clojure has a handy function, `reduce`.
With `reduce`, we can get the same results as in below:

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (reduce + 1 '(1 2))
4
user> (reduce + 3 [1 2 3])
9
{% endhighlight %}

It's always good to check [Clojure Cheat Sheet](http://clojure.org/cheatsheet) or
search online for the functions.


### References

- ClojureDocs

    [http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/defn](http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/defn)

- Introduction to Clojure, Functions: Defining Your Own

    [http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#functions:-defining-your-own](http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#functions:-defining-your-own)

- Clojure from the ground up: functions, "Defining functions"

    [http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions](http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions)


- Clojure for the Brave and True, Do Things, 3.3 Defining Functions

    [http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#3_3__Defining_Functions](http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#3_3__Defining_Functions)

Commit message:

Uses srouce function instead of URL to code

docs/clojure/function-creation.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Basics of Function
permalink: /docs/clojure/function-creation/
level: easy
author: yokolet
---

Clojure is a functional programming language.
Creating and using functions, also, creating functions to use functions are what Clojure programers do.
Clojure has a couple of ways to create a function.
Among them, function definition by `defn` would be the most popular one.

The syntax is:

  ```
  (defn name doc-string? attr-map? [params*] body)
  ```

Just above may be unclear how to write.
It is a good idea to look at how other functions do.
For example, let's look at source code of `+` function.

- Advice to coaches

    Please make sure *console* is opened if attendees are using LightTable.
    On other repl, in some case, clojure.repl is not loaded.
    For such case, don't forget `(use '[clojure.repl])`.
    The `source` and `doc` function is available after that.

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (source +)
(defn +
  "Returns the sum of nums. (+) returns 0. Does not auto-promote
  longs, will throw on overflow. See also: +'"
  {:inline (nary-inline 'add 'unchecked_add)
   :inline-arities >1?
   :added "1.2"}
  ([] 0)
  ([x] (cast Number x))
  ([x y] (. clojure.lang.Numbers (add x y)))
  ([x y & more]
    (reduce1 + (+ x y) more)))
nil
{% endhighlight %}

Compare `defn` syntax and the actual function code.

  - `name` is `+`
  - `doc-string?` is "Returns the sum of nums...(snip)...See also: +'"
  - `attr-map?` is `{:inline (nary-inline...(snip)...:added "1.2"}`
  - `[params*]`s are `[]`, `[x]`, `[x y]`, and `[x y & more]`
  - `body`s follow each param. `0`,` (cast Number x)` and other


We use `+` function like:
{% highlight clojure %}
user=> (+)            ; params []
0
user=> (+ 3)          ; parans [x]
3
user=> (+ 3 4)        ; params [x y]
7
user=> (+ 3 4 5 6 7)  ; params [x y & more]
25
{% endhighlight %}


Also, see the function's document using `doc` function how `doc-string?`
and other compoments will show up.


{% highlight clojure %}
user=> (doc +)
-------------------------
clojure.core/+
([] [x] [x y] [x y & more])
  Returns the sum of nums. (+) returns 0. Does not auto-promote
  longs, will throw on overflow. See also: +'
nil
{% endhighlight %}

Clojure has one more way to look at function.
As in blow,  `meta` function shows what defined in `attr-map?` and some other information.

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (meta #'+)
{:arglists ([] [x] [x y] [x y & more]), :ns #<Namespace clojure.core>, :name +, :column 1, :added
 "1.2", :inline-arities #<core$_GT_1_QMARK_ clojure.core$_GT_1_QMARK_@f73b0ec>, :doc "Returns the
 sum of nums. (+) returns 0. Does not auto-promote\n  longs, will throw on overflow. See also: +'
", :line 936, :file "clojure/core.clj", :inline #<core$nary_inline$fn__3961 clojure.core$nary_inl
ine$fn__3961@31e8b384>}
{% endhighlight %}

<br/>

Let's get back to the `defn` syntax, `(defn name doc-string? attr-map? [params*] body)`.

  - We need `name`.
  - `doc-string?` and `attr-map?` are optional.
  - `[params*]` can take multiple forms, [], [x], [x y], [x y & more], [x & more], or [& more].
      We need at least one of them.

      In other languages, there's an idea of *operator overload*,
      and in some cases, multiple same name methods of different number of argurments exist
      (the number of arguments is called *arity*).
      Clojure can do in a single definition.
<br/><br/>

So far, we learned how to create the function. It's time to try your own function. Here's an example:

{% gist 9161447 %}

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (do-something)
"nothing"
user> (do-something 1)
"easy!"
user> (do-something 1 1)
"hm, ok, will do"
user> (do-something 1 1 1)
"oh, no, so many!"
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

The first example doesn't use given arguments. Next example uses arguments.

This `add-up` function sums up given initial value and all elements in
the given collection (vector or list).

Unless given collection is empty, the function recursively calls itself.

When, the given collection gets empty, it returns the summed up value.

To visualize what's going on during the recursive call,
`println` is added in `let` binding.
(see  [`let` binding]({{ site.baseurl}}/docs/clojure/let/),
[`cond`]({{ site.baseurl}}/docs/clojure/cond/) )

{% gist 9162464 %}

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (add-up 1 '(1 2))
val: 1, coll: (1 2)
val: 2, coll: (2)
val: 4, coll: clojure.lang.PersistentList$EmptyList@1
4
user> (add-up 3 [1 2 3])
val: 3, coll: [1 2 3]
val: 4, coll: (2 3)
val: 6, coll: (3)
val: 9, coll: clojure.lang.PersistentList$EmptyList@1
9
{% endhighlight %}
<br/>

Above is for a practice to create function.
However, Clojure has a handy function, `reduce`.
With `reduce`, we can get the same results as in below:

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (reduce + 1 '(1 2))
4
user> (reduce + 3 [1 2 3])
9
{% endhighlight %}

It's always good to check [Clojure Cheat Sheet](http://clojure.org/cheatsheet) or
search online for the functions.


### References

- ClojureDocs

    [http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/defn](http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/defn)

- Introduction to Clojure, Functions: Defining Your Own

    [http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#functions:-defining-your-own](http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#functions:-defining-your-own)

- Clojure from the ground up: functions, "Defining functions"

    [http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions](http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions)


- Clojure for the Brave and True, Do Things, 3.3 Defining Functions

    [http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#3_3__Defining_Functions](http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#3_3__Defining_Functions)
