docs/clojure/let.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Assignment <code>let</code>
permalink: /docs/clojure/let/
level: easy
author: yokolet
---

- Advice to coaches

    The *let* binding is frequently used in a function definition.
    We have function, destructuring and function with let/destructuring sections.
    It may be good to come back this lab after or during the function lab.

Like [`def`]({{ site.baseurl}}/docs/clojure/def/) does, `let` creates a *binding*.
In other languages, it is called a local variable assignment in general.
In Clojure, it has the diffrenct name, *lexical binding*.
Like the local variable in other languages, Clojure's lexically bound variable is available to
use in a limitted code block (scope).
However, unlike other languages, the value never changes (immutable).
For convenience, this document uses the word, variable, but its value won't vary once the value is assgined.


The syntax is `(let [bindings*] exprs*)`.

Let's try below on REPL.

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (let [her-number 234] (println her-number))
234
nil
user> her-number
CompilerException java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to resolve symbol: her-number in this context
, compiling:(/private/var/folders/4b/c9gsjvv12tq9n4mph065qs480000gn/T/form-init6323661111322215411
.clj:1:743)
user> ; because her-number is available within let parenthesis (body).
{% endhighlight %}

We can write as many as bindings (key-value pair) within a square braket.
Those bindings are evaluated one by one, so we can use the evaluated result
within a single square bracket. Try examples below:

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (let [x 1
            y 1
            z (+ x y)
            z (* 2 z) ] (println z))
4
nil
user> (let [+ str    ; locally, + works as string concatenation
            w (+ "a" "b" "c")]
        (println (+ "I got " w)))
I got abc
nil
{% endhighlight %}


As the examples above, the value part of bindings can be a function.
We can use `println` function in let bindings, also.
This is often used for debugging to make sure what value is in there.


{% highlight clojure %}
user> (let [x 1
            y 1
            z (+ x y)
            _ (println (str "z was " z))
            z (* 2 z)]
        z)
z was 2
4
{% endhighlight %}


### References

- ClojureDocs

    [http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/let](http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/let)

- Introduction to Clojure, Let and Locals

    [http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#let-and-locals](http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#let-and-locals)

- Clojure from the ground up: functions, "Let bindings"

    [http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions](http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions)

- Clojure for the Brave and True, Do Things, 4.2 let

    [http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#4_2__let](http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#4_2__let)

Commit message:

Minor spelling and grammar tweaks
Tiny changes to make the instructions flow more smoothly.

docs/clojure/let.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Assignment <code>let</code>
permalink: /docs/clojure/let/
level: easy
author: yokolet
---

- Advice to coaches

    The *let* binding is frequently used in function definitions.
    We have functions with destructuring and functions with let/destructuring sections.
    It may be good to come back to this lab after or during the function lab.

Like [`def`]({{ site.baseurl}}/docs/clojure/def/), `let` creates a *binding*.
In other languages, it is called a local variable assignment.
In Clojure, it has the different name: *lexical binding*.
Similar to  local variables in other languages, Clojure's lexically bound variables are available to
use in a limited code block (scope).
However, unlike other languages, the values never change (immutable).
For convenience, this document uses the word *variable* but its value won't vary once the value is assigned.

The syntax is `(let [bindings*] exprs*)`.

Let's try this in a REPL.

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (let [her-number 234] (println her-number))
234
nil
user> her-number
CompilerException java.lang.RuntimeException: Unable to resolve symbol: her-number in this context
, compiling:(/private/var/folders/4b/c9gsjvv12tq9n4mph065qs480000gn/T/form-init6323661111322215411
.clj:1:743)
user> ; because her-number is available only within let parenthesis (body).
{% endhighlight %}

We can write as many bindings (key-value pairs) as we want within the square brackets.
Those bindings are evaluated one by one, so we can use the evaluated result
within a single square bracket. Try these examples below:

{% highlight clojure %}
user> (let [x 1
            y 1
            z (+ x y)
            z (* 2 z) ] (println z))
4
nil
user> (let [+ str    ; locally, + works as string concatenation
            w (+ "a" "b" "c")]
        (println (+ "I got " w)))
I got abc
nil
{% endhighlight %}


As seen in the examples above, the value part of bindings can be a function.
We can use `println` function in let bindings, too.
This is often used for debugging so that you can check the value.


{% highlight clojure %}
user> (let [x 1
            y 1
            z (+ x y)
            _ (println (str "z was " z))
            z (* 2 z)]
        z)
z was 2
4
{% endhighlight %}


### References

- ClojureDocs

    [http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/let](http://clojuredocs.org/clojure_core/clojure.core/let)

- Introduction to Clojure, Let and Locals

    [http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#let-and-locals](http://clojure-doc.org/articles/tutorials/introduction.html#let-and-locals)

- Clojure from the ground up: functions, "Let bindings"

    [http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions](http://aphyr.com/posts/303-clojure-from-the-ground-up-functions)

- Clojure for the Brave and True, Do Things, 4.2 let

    [http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#4_2__let](http://www.braveclojure.com/do-things/#4_2__let)
